# Goal

As described in the `project_description.txt` file, this project asks us to implement the Linux MD5 crypt method as used in the `etc_shadow` file. 

# Usage

My MD5 crypt algorithm does not support generating random salt value as the real algorithm. While actually, it is designed to crack the user password, given the salt and base64 encoded md5sum from `etc_shadow`. You can generate the `etc_shadow` style user encoded data by input the following to the command line: 

```cmd
python3 md5_crypt.py passwd salt
```

# Key Points of Algorithm

Rather than directly using the simple MD5 crypt algorithm, which is too dangerous to store the user data, Linux add two more techniques to the original crypt algorithm to enhance the security level. 

*   The first is to repeat a lot more MD5 function calls to get the final crypt result, so that hackers could not easily brute force to crack the user password. This is achieved by adding 1000 times of MD5 on the initial input value. [Although it is more complex in the real algorithm.]

*   The second is to add a so called value - salt. Usually, this is a string with length of 8. If user didn't specify the value of salt, it will be a random string generated by the Linux system. 

    By making use of the salt, we can promote the user password security level by directly appending the salt to the end of the original user password. So that the complexity of the user password is improved, while it is invisible to the system user. 

[Here](https://www.vidarholen.net/contents/blog/?p=32) and [here](https://unix4lyfe.org/crypt/crypt.js) are the two main resources that I read when implementing the Python 3 version of MD5 crypt algorithm. 

# Additional Tips

1.  Check out my notes about the `binascii` package and encoding method. You will reduce the chance to be stuck by the same bug I encountered before. 
2.  The algorithm is supported by the fully coverage unit test. You can find the unit test file in `algorithm` folder. 